---
title: "Graduate Show"
---

Something won, something lost is an installation detailing the process of my artistic  research into emergent properties and irreversibility through the medium of glacier ice. It is a  type of spacious pin boarding following along the lines of artists working with concepts of  collection it represents a collection of my own ideas and activities that emerged through my  ‘thinking by doing’ exploration of glacier ice. I use cast shadows of the ice crystal structures I  found in the scientific literature from the 1950s that represent the jumping off point for this  thesis research, and exhibit objects, graphics, rubbings, sketches and scribbles that all  deepened my understanding and thinking of what happens within glacier ice. How the medium and its internal structure is in continual negotiation with the glacier as a whole; the  glacier dictates how the ice structures can be, but the ice structures within also influence how  the glacier itself can behave. 

The theme of emergence is treated through a process of guided sketching over projected  images of archival ice core thin sections through the Greenland ice sheet. These images, first  published in 1997 only exist in hardcopy somewhere (lost?) in the archives of the Alfred  Wegener Institute in Germany. Acetate reproductions of these thin sections can be selected  from my archive from various depths (times) in the ice sheet to be projected on the wall, and  then I invite visitors to join me in outlining the crystal grains that most attract them, co-creating  an image that represents the multitemporal history of the ice sheet, as well as our individual  interactions with what we see in the samples. 

The theme of irreversibility is treated through a reflective installation documenting the process  of reconstructing rocks found on the surface of a glacier that have been broken apart by the  action of ice. Echoing Duchamps Large Glass, I have pieced these fragmented objects back  together, but it’s not perfect. I also consider the transient way in which ice itself can fuse these rocks back together; becoming both the agent of repair and eventual re-destruction as we  lose the ice over time. 

A common theme of the installations presented is a form of archiving. The diminishing glaciers  of the present day represent a diminishing archive of their own past experiences, which at  least in the Alps is expected to be largely lost within my lifetime. What will we lose along with  them? I play with ways of capturing and storing the structures of glacier ice revealed from prior  scientific research and my own field investigations. Throughout the installation the colour  palette mimics the predominantly grey scale environment that is felt in many glacier  environments – particularly on cloudy days.

At the time of submission of this document I have not installed my work, so here I include  some impressions of the pieces included in the graduate show installation, during  development in my studio, and hope you will enjoy coming to visit it when it is in place in  Vienna! I am unfortunately not present at my presentation space on Friday 26th from 15h  onwards as I am participating in a symposium at AIL that unfortunately happens at the same  time. 
